OK and I want to spend some time looking at multi loops circuits Here's an example of a simple multi
loop circuit and the question is Well how would you solve a circuit like this.
And the question is what I mean what exactly would you try to solve for.
Typically what you're asked to solve for at the beginning is find the current find the current flowing
through the battery and find the current flowing in each branch of this particular circuit.
So the main key at the beginning is to before we apply any of the rules what you want to do at the beginning
is just identify the current in each branch.
Take a guess.
So you pick pick a current direction
for each branch.
So for example for this one here again if there's only one power supply it's kind of the easy to guess
the correct direction.
So in this case here let's just pick a different color here.
I'm going to assume that there's a current eye flowing in this branch over here.
So that means as a current I'm over here right there's a current I everywhere and this branch on the
left hand side.
Now I'm going to label a current.
Now here's a junction over here.
When I call this junction a.
Now there's going to be part of that current that's going to flow down and flow through this two ohm
resistor.
To call this the current one.
And now there's also some of that current Now that's going to flow down through this outer branch when
we call this current Aitu.
OK.
So that's what I mean by picking a direction for each branch and give it a different label because there's
no guarantee that these currents could be the same if they are the same the map will come out at the
end.
It'll work itself out.
But pick a direction give it a different label.
All right.
Number two what I would suggest is if you can try to use an equivalent resistor OK.
If you can simplify the circuit and represent it as a circuit that looks like this all right a 10 volt
MF with one resistor.
Well if you're able to do that and by all means please do that because if I'm able to simplify the circuit
and make it look like this
or my blue resistance here is an equivalent resistance.
And in this case I'd be able to do that because I have 8 ohm resistor that is in parallel with a forum
resistor.
I can combine both of those at the beginning and whatever result I get for that I can then combine it
with a 3 ohm resistor that is in series with it.
So in this case I'd be able to simplify this three resistor network in terms of one equivalent resistance.
And if I'm able to do that while the current that I labeled I appear is actually the same current flowing
over here because all I've done is I've basically taken this point and this point in everything on the
right hand side of both of those points and represented them by an equivalent resistance.
So I haven't changed the current over here flowing through the battery.
It's the same current.
And now I have a current flowing through the equivalent resistance.
But this would give me an immediate way of finding what the current is.
And once you know the current I then you're one step closer to finding the currents I wanted it to because
as it stands when I first kind of label these currents I really have three unknown that I have to solve
for.
And one way of solving for one of those unknown's is by using an equivalent resistance and then solve
to find current
through the battery.
So those are kind of the first two tips I think I would give you.
The next thing is you use Kirchhoff's rules you can use my mind you can see these Kirchoff's voltage
law and that was our age I was our Leupp rule
and we can use the junction rule
for in this case here we have one junction up here we also have another junction up here down here.
They're going to give us the same information.
So the junction rule for this case pretty straightforward.
All right.
The junction rule simply says whatever current flows in has to be what current flows out.
So in this case you simply have whatever current flows into the junction has to be the current flowing
out of the junction which is one plus Aitu.
Actually this is an important equation.
This is allowing me to connect some of those unknown's and the general rule is if you have three unknown's
the minimum you need are three equations in order to solve for those.
So this could be used as one of those equations.
The junction rule can be one equation.
What I could do now is I can use my loop rules.
There's different loop rules here I can set up in the circuit I can think of three of them I can think
of this inner loop here I can think of the outer loop here or I can think of just doing the loop over
on this right hand side of the circuit.
Right.
I could really set up three different loops to get other equations but I or I can use a junction rule
to use one of those equations so you can use a different combination.
Generally what I do is I use one equation from the junction rule and then I use the loop rule to get
the two remaining equations and then I solve for the unknowns.
OK.
And that's kind of a good method to do it.
So let's go ahead and solve now for this particular problem.
We'll set up all the equations and show you how you solve it.
Again I'll first start by using the equivalent resistance and then we're going to use some loop rules
in combination with the junction rule to solve for the unknowns.